# Javascript Fresher

## 1. what is Javascript?
- Javascript is a programming language that is used to create interactive effects within web browsers.
- Javascript is a scripting language that enables you to create dynamically updating content, control multimedia, animate images, and pretty much everything else.
- Javascript is a programming language that adds interactivity to your website (for example games, responses when buttons are pressed or data entered in forms, dynamic styling, animation). This article helps you get started with this exciting language and gives you an idea of what is possible.

## 2. Javascript History
- Javascript was created by Brendan Eich in 1995 during his time at Netscape Communications. It was inspired by Java, Scheme and Self.
- Javascript was first known as LiveScript, but Netscape changed its name to JavaScript, possibly because of the excitement being generated by Java.

## 3. Javascript Features
- Javascript is a lightweight, interpreted programming language.
- Designed for creating network-centric applications.
- Complementary to and integrated with HTML.
- Open and cross-platform

## 4. Javascript Advantages
- Less server interaction − You can validate user input before sending the page off to the server. This saves server traffic, which means less load on your server.
- Immediate feedback to the visitors − They don't have to wait for a page reload to see if they have forgotten to enter something.
- Increased interactivity − You can create interfaces that react when the user hovers over them with a mouse or activates them via the keyboard.
- Richer interfaces − You can use JavaScript to include such items as drag-and-drop components and sliders to give a Rich Interface to your site visitors.

## 5. Javascript Disadvantages
- Client-side JavaScript does not allow the reading or writing of files. This has been kept for security reason.
- JavaScript can't be used for networking applications because there is no such support available.
- JavaScript doesn't have any multi-threading or multiprocessor capabilities.
- Once again for security reason JavaScript can't be allowed to access local files on the client's computer.
